-*- text -*-

Mup

Mup is music publication program. It takes a text file as input and
generates PostScript or MIDI output.

See the LICENSE file for license information.

See http://www.arkkra.com for more information about Mup.

	Prerequisites for building

If you use the delivered files that are generated,
then Mup itself only needs a C compiler, the standard C library,
and the math library.

Mupmate requires a C++ compiler and the FLTK library (1.x version),
plus libm, libz, and either libjpeg and libpng or the fltk equivalents.
On Unix-like systems, Mupmate requires X11 libraries (X11, Xext, Xft, Xpm,
Xinerama).
For building for Windows, Mupmate icon building requires xpmtoppm,
and either pamtowinicon or ppmtowinicon and ppmtopgm

To build everything completely from scratch, in addition to the things
mentioned above, you will need at least:
 sed
 flex (on some systems, flex-devel may be required)
 bison
 egrep
 mkdir -p
 gs	(ghostscript)
 groff	(and what it uses: troff, pic, tbl, grops)
 ppmtogif (this is usually in netpbm or netpbm-progs package)
 sort
 expr
 cut
 cat

Packaging files are included for creating
Linux packages (.rpm or .deb or pacman),
a .dmg file for OS X,
or a NSIS installer for Windows.
You would need the appropriate tools: rpmbuild, dpkg-buildpkg, makepkg,
hdiutil, or makensis.

	Building Mup

There are two ways to build Mup:
either using autoconf or using the provided simple.makefile.
Autoconf attempts to support building on almost any system by
trying to deduce and handle any idiosynchracies of your system,
However, if it fails, it may be difficult to debug and correct.
The simple.makefile attempts to support building on almost any system
by being as simple as possible, so that if it fails, it may be easier
to figure out why, and devise a solution.

The simple.makefile uses pre-generated files, whereas the autoconf method
builds everything from scratch, so if you just want to use Mup "as is"
with no changes, or only reasonably straightforward changes,
while either method may work, the simple.makefile method is likely
to be quicker and easier. If you want to make changes
to any of the tools used to build Mup, or to files that are generated,
you will probably want to use the autoconf methods,
or could end up doing a lot by hand.

If all you really need is to compile and install Mup itself, and not
any of the helper programs,
	make -f simple.makefile install-mup
may suffice. Read the comments in simple.makefile for other options.

To build using autoconf, the normal autoconf steps are followed.
If starting from a github clone, first do
	autoreconf --install
If starting from a "dist" package, like the source packages available
from arkkra.com, and you are not making any changes to configure.ac
or any of the Makefile.am files, the autoreconf step can be skipped.
Then do:
	./configure
	make
	make check   # optional, to run the test suite
	make install

In addition to the standard configure options, there are also:
	--disable-mupdisp		to not build mupdisp
	--disable-mupmate		to not build mupmate
	--with-fltk-prefix=/path/to/fltk to use fltk from specified path

Alternately, you can build using the simple.makefile:
	make -f simple.makefile all
or build and install:
	make -f simple.makefile install

	Building installer packages

After doing the autoconf build, run:
	make dist
Then select and follow the procedure below for the desired package type.

To build an RPM package (on a system with rpmbuild command):
	cd packaging
	./buildrpm
The resulting binary RPM will be under rpmtop/RPMS and the resulting
source RPM will be under rpmtop/SRPMS

To  build an RPM for 32-bit Intel target from a 64-bit Intel host:
	cd packaging
	./buildrpm --target i586-linux

To build a .deb package (on a system with dpkg-buildpackage command):
	cd packaging
	./builddeb "Your Name <your.email@your.com>" amd64
Packages needed for build include at least bison, debhelper, dpkg-dev, flex
gcc, g++, groff (not just groff-base), libfltk1.3-dev, libxft-dev, libxpm-dev,
libxinerama-dev, make, and netpbm.

To build a 32-bit .deb package:
	cd packaging
	./builddeb "Your Name <your.email@your.com>" i386

To build a pacman package (for Arch Linux and similar):
Copy mup-%{VERSION}.tar.gz and packaging/PKGBUILD to some directory.
Edit PKGBUILD with the correct md5sum for the tar.gz file. Then run:
	makepkg
 
To build a Windows installer package (from a Linux machine with makensis
command, mingw cross compiler, and openwatcom cross compiler):
	cd packaging
	./buildexe
See the comments at the top for options if you don't have the openwatcom
cross compiler, and/or have tools installed in places it can't find them.

To build an MS-DOS package (from a Linux machine with
djgpp cross compiler, and openwatcom cross compiler):
	cd packaging
	./buildexe --dos
See the comments at the top for options if you don't have the openwatcom
cross compiler, and/or have tools installed in places it can't find them.

To build a Mac OS-X .dmg package:
	cd packaging
	./builddmg
The resulting .dmg file will be in the mac-osx sub-directory.
